// OCEANIA

Sadly, your visit to the floating outpost of Oceania was not
a rewarding experience.  The traders who would normally be
doing business there had apparently fled when the armies of
Malumax arrived.  You couldn't blame them after what had
already happened elsewhere.

As you step into the teleporter with no more answers than
you'd started with, you find yourself whisked away to some
sort of fortress with no way out in sight.  It seems that
Malumax's minions laid a trap for you.  But unfortunately,
you find yourself unarmed as you regain your composure.
You frantically reach for the nearest viable weapon, but...

//THE BEST WEAPON

As you step across the threshold of the fortress' exit
teleporter, you find yourself left with even more questions.
What was the source of those strange messages you'd been
hearing in your head?  Was it friend or foe?  Whatever the
case, you're not closer to your goal of locating Malumax's
secret lair.

You reappear amidst what appear to be ancient ruins high
up the side of a mountain, a thin layer of clouds covering
a small valley nestled between the peaks.  But why would
Malumax send troops to such a remote area?  Gazing through
the fog, you make out the shape of a small outpost and it
hits you: this is the Golden Vale, home to the mine that
puts out the highest quality wand crystal in Parthoris.
If he's struck here, then he means to cut off the supply
and cripple the Sidhe defense effort!  It's up to you
to drive away the attacking forces.  Onward and downward!

//THE DOWNWARD SPIRAL

Your head is still pounding from the mental bombardment it
received from the ancient obelisk.  Dozens of images
streaked across your consciousness at once, seemingly at
random; images of slain elves and ruined towns, the armies
of Malumax, shadowy figures and otherworldly horrors bathed
in blood, and even of the martyr Corvus and his hated foe
D'Sparil.  Somehow, you're certain it means something but
you can't process what.

As the world comes back into focus around you, you see that
now you're in a well-preserved crypt of some sort.  Though
you'd assume that such a place is safe from invaders, you can hear
the sounds of enemy forces echoing from all around.  All
you can do now is grit your teeth and fight your way through.

//PRESERVED CATACOMB

After slaying the mighty Maulotaur who guarded the crypt
since untold ages, you discover a hidden switch in the sun
mural that opens the way to the burial chamber proper.  The
air inside is thick with dust; it's probable you're the first
to enter this part of the tomb in centuries.  While it's not
likely that anything here will help you in your quest, you
figure there must be something here that Malumax wants, and
the least you can do is keep it from him.

However, the architects of this place apparently didn't stop
at binding a dark servant to guard it forever.  As you wipe
a thick layer of dust from an inscription in an alcove upon
the wall, there is a brilliant flash of light from behind you.
You turn to face it, but before you can see what it is, you
black out.  When you come to, you're in a vast chamber staring
right at the back of another Maulotaur.  This doesn't bode
well.

//TRIAL OF THE MAULOTAUR

It seemed that the ancients had intended to give you a fair chance
at survival throughout the trial of the maulotaur up until the
part where they teleported you into an inescapable box of searing
hot coals.  The pain was unimaginable as your skin blistered
and boiled in the heat.  As every fiber of your being cried
out in horror, the last thing you could remember thinking was
that you'd made a terrible mistake.  Then you blacked out.

Amazingly, you regain consciousness.  More interestingly, it
seems somebody not only rescued you but meticulously treated
your horrendous burns with powerful magicks; you'd never know
anything had happened.  Looking around, it appears a healer
must have scried your peril and rescued you just in time.  But
your savior is nowhere to be found, and an eerie quiet hangs
over his temple...

//DESECRATED SHRINES

Unfortunately, what happened is clear: while you were out,
Malumax's forces heard somebody in the temple was hiding a
Sidhe and attacked without mercy.  Hopefully the priest who
treated your wounds was able to escape before they began
desecrating the shrines.

The sigil switch on the wall reveals a small, cramped hidden
passage out of the temple grounds.  It's not your preferred
method of leaving, but it's preferable to taking one of the
main gates and being overwhelmed by a much bigger detachment
of Malumax's forces.  Time ticks away as you crawl through
the damp, musty passage, and by the time you push a large
brick out of the way at the end, you find the sun has set.
What's worse is you seem to be in a graveyard, and you can
feel the presence of restless spirits upon the wind...

//NIGHT OF THE TRANSLUCENT DEAD

Having defeated the ghostly lich guarding your escape
from the graveyard, you step onto the glittering base of
yet another teleporter.  You stumble out the other side,
tripping over the brush beneath your feet.  Unable to catch
yourself in time, you discover to your surprise that you've
teleported into a dense wall of foliage... several feet above
the ground.

Landing on your face leaves you hurting a bit, but after the
cleansing fires of your earlier ordeal you quickly get over
it.  It appears this time you've arrived at a secluded manor
house, fenced in by thick overgrowth.  You'd heard whispers
of members of the high society having ties to the New Order,
and this seems to confirm it.  You steel yourself and head
for the front door.

//HOUSE CLEANING

Before heading down the river on the boat you found docked behind
the manor, you quickly head back inside to double check the
hidden basement library to see if there was anything you had
missed.  Sure enough, after some poking around, you find a
tome that had been hastily replaced on the shelf recently
which, upon closer inspection, had some interesting notes
hidden between the pages.

Much of the content is boring records of clandestine meetings
between the lord of the house and some of his underground
contacts, but one thing in particular stands out to you: the
writer mentions a hidden grove about an hour's sailing down
the stream from the manor with a teleporter leading to a
most secret place.  It's not much to go on, but you pocket
the note and head for the grove, hoping the teleporter will
lead you closer to your goal.

//ELEMENTARY

It seems the "most secret place" mentioned in the notes was
actually some sort of extraplanar detour between two places.
You're not entirely sure if the elemental journey you just
took was intentional or yet another trap set for you by your
enemies, but whatever the case you managed to survive another
ambush by the armies of the New Order and made it through
another teleporter.

As if taking a cue from the airy aether you'd just left, this
teleporter lets you out in mid-air just above a hole of some
sort.  Thankfully it's not a long fall, and you make it out
unharmed.  Looking around, you get your bearings; it seems
you're in an enemy keep.  Seems it was some sort of shortcut
after all.

//MALIGNANT

A keep this size would have significant strategic value for
the New Order; a fantastic staging ground for attacks on
neighboring areas.  Unfortunately for them, you've slain the
Maulotaur in charge of their legion and stolen most of their
arsenal.  It may not have been Malumax's secret lair, but it
certainly felt good to stomp out the fire of their ambitions
anyhow.

Yet another teleporter whisks you away to a comparatively
pleasant location.  As you rematerialize, the soothing sound
of running water calms your weary soul.  You've entered a
temple of water, possibly a holy place of the Ssithra people.
Unfortunately, the calming waters have been bespoiled by more
of Malumax's forces.  You have no choice but to push forward
and hope to find more clues as to where the lich is hiding.

//HOLY WATERS

It seems that the Ssithra priests and any who'd been
worshipping here managed to make a hasty retreat before the
New Order's troops managed to penetrate too deeply into the
temple.  Stepping onto the teleport pad in the water proves
just how hasty it had to be; once more, you rematerialize
and find yourself falling from the air.  Seems they hadn't
had time to quite work out the finer details of their escape.

You splash down into some murky water at the bottom of a long
hole.  These are clearly man-made waterways, probably beneath
a nearby village.  Unfortunately for you, you know exactly
what this means: you're in a sewer.  There's no sign of any
escapees here, which means there's got to be another way out.
All you can do is keep trudging onward.

//A HELL OF A SEWER

Having climbed up out of the sewers, you step into the misty
woods and make your way to the nearby village.  Fortunately,
it seems they haven't been attacked by the New Order, and the
people are safe and sound.  But unfortunately, that means the
trail's gone cold.

Refusing to give up, you head to the local tavern and fish
around for information.  Though the presence of a Sidhe in
the current state of things makes many visibly uneasy, you do
manage to strike up conversation with an old fisherman.  With
a bit of prodding, you get him to mention having seen some
strangers poking around an old tomb just across the water from
here.  Reluctant to stick his neck out for you, he quietly
tells you where to find a boat and draws you a map.

You set out for the tomb.  On arrival, it seems nobody is
there.  Then a gate slams shut behind you.  Once again, it
seems the only way out is forward.

//DEAD RIVER

You feel a great sense of dissatisfaction as the Maulotaur
falls dead at your feet.  There were no disciples here, no
trace of a New Order legion.  It seems like this whole
affair may have been another dead end.

As you step through the secret exit door revealed by your
victory, however, you find yourself in the presence of a
rather strange sight: a tunnel through nothingness ending
at a dark portal that shifts like water.  This must be an
ancient form of magic, totally unfamiliar to you.

Reluctantly, you step inside.  Immediately, you feel what
you can only describe as searing hot magical tendrils
entering your brain.  All at once, the shifting images
from the obelisk make sense.  Everything is clear now.
And in that moment of clarity, the portal sends you to
where your mind's eye sees.

You whiz out the other side in a blinding flash, and find
yourself in a place that defies description.  Machines of
some manner with flickering images dancing behind panes of
glass flank you on either side, and posts that make light
without flame dot each corner of the teleporter.  There's
no doubt about it: this must be the place.

//THE WIZARD'S TECHBASE

Malumax gravely misjudged your abilities.  You quickly dealt
with his Maulotaur servant right in the dark heart of his
personal cathedral, and managed to escape through some manner
of machine-controlled portal.  While he claims you did very
little to his operations, you have a feeling he'll be dealing
with the fallout from this for some time.

The other end of the portal drops you off within the gates of
a palatial manor.  There's no doubt in your mind: this must
be the home of Lord Vilkreath.  You don't know how much time
you'll have before Malumax's appointment to retrieve the Heart
of D'Sparil, so you'd best act quickly.  If you steal the gem
and escape quickly enough, you can stop the entire resurrection
plot in its tracks.

//THE WIZARD'S TECHBASE (SECRET EXIT)

It's hard to say exactly how badly you've damaged Malumax's
talking machines for certain; you don't even have the
slightest idea how they work.  You did, however, give the
glowing ghost head deep within the base a sound thrashing.
You step through Malumax's machine-controlled portal with a
smug sense of satisfaction.

However, it quickly becomes clear that you've maybe done a bit
too much damage.  The sensation of traveling this portal in
particular is gut-wrenching, like sea sickness grew a fist and
punched you in the stomach.  It feels like forever before you
finally come out the other end, and when you do, it seems to
have simply flushed you further down into the sewer systems of
his base.  Looks like you'll have to find another way out...

//THROUGH THE PORTAL OF TIME

Thanks to the help of Dr. Raffel, who seems to harbor just as
much resentment for Malumax as you do, you're able to escape
this nightmarish vision of a future where the New Order has
succeeded and your kind are said to have only been a myth.
Hopefully this time the portal will take you where you need
to go.

The other end of the portal drops you off within the gates of
a palatial manor.  There's no doubt in your mind: this must
be the home of Lord Vilkreath.  You don't know how much time
you'll have before Malumax's appointment to retrieve the Heart
of D'Sparil, so you'd best act quickly.  If you steal the gem
and escape quickly enough, you can stop the entire resurrection
plot in its tracks.

//THIEVERY AT THE FORSAKEN MANOR

Though it took all night, you managed to make your way into
the sealed tomb in which Lord Vilkreath had stored away the
mortal remains of D'Sparil alongside the precious Heart of
D'Sparil gem that Malumax intended to use to bring him back
to life.  Your mission accomplished, you quietly scurry out
the front gate and off towards the nearby town.

All you have to do now is get the Heart back to the Elders
of Sidhe; they'll know what to do with it to prevent the
resurrection from happening.  Getting to them may prove to
be a bit harder than anticipated, however.  The town is
eerily quiet as you make your way there, and there's not a
soul to be seen.  Somehow, you feel like something bad is
going to happen...

//YOU'LL ONLY LIVE TO TWENTY

Against all the odds, you've achieved final victory.  The
accursed lich Malumax has been slain by your hand, and with
him dies any chance of a resurrection of D'Sparil.  His
wicked ambitions foiled, you step confidently through the
portal below the cathedral and escape from the ruined town.

Though you encounter a few straggling units from the New
Order's army along the way, your journey to the next town is
otherwise uneventful.  The townfolk are reluctant to be seen
with you at first, but when you tell them what happened and
show them the Heart of D'Sparil, the dread lifts from them.
You're able to charter passage back to Silverspring in the
west, home to the chambers of the Elders of Sidhe.

News of your deeds reaches the shores of your homeland before
you.  As you step off the ship and onto the docks, you are
welcomed as a hero by a crowd of joyous Sidhe.  The Elders
themselves wait for you back on the shore, eager to meet the
one who slayed their dreaded foe.  Awed by their admiration,
you manage to quietly mutter thanks as you hand over the
gem.

The Elders insist on having you present for the ritual.  You
can hardly turn down such an invitation, so you graciously
accept.  It's hard to believe that you've been brought into
the Elders' sacred chambers, the place where the Seven Candles
flicker in the very patterns of their breaths.  They place the
gem upon the ground and begin to chant.  The Heart of D'Sparil
rises into the air, pulsating with arcane power, and after a
few tense moments is banished from Parthoris forever.

With the Heart gone and Malumax slain, the New Order's plans
have completely faltered.  However, this isn't the end.  The
corruption that dwelled in Malumax's heart still lives on in
the hearts of those who heard his message.  It will take time
and hard work, but hopefully one day all men will once again
view the Sidhe as their brothers.

Whatever the case may be, for now, peace has been restored to
Parthoris, and the name of Garrulus will go down in history
as that of a true hero.

//EOF