In ages long past, a darkness swept the lands of Parthoris.  As the prophecies foretold, three Serpent Riders appeared in the east and enthralled the seven nations.  Those who did not believe--the mystic Sidhe of the west--were labeled as Heretics and hunted down.  The Elders of Sidhe extinguished the seven candles, wiping out their armies, but D'Sparil's followers responded with genocidal force.  One of the few remaining Sidhe, the legendary martyr Corvus, took arms against his armies and, having defeated his generals, slain D'Sparil and crushed his dome beneath the sea, vanished into the ether.

With their leader gone, D'Sparil's armies quickly began to falter.  All but the truly dedicated among the Order of the Sign came to their senses, realizing their God-King was naught but a wicked man possessed of great power.  Some bold and wicked men attempted to claim right to the undead soldiers and wicked fiends among their ranks, but they were all defeated by either more organized resistance or their own short-sighted avarice.  In time, the monsters were all but destroyed, and the wounds the Serpent Riders had raked across the land began to heal.  Even the Sidhe, whose people were decimated, began the slow process of rebuilding and repopulating.

But D'Sparil was not forgotten.  His name was still whispered in the shadows, passed back and forth between shadowy figures who dare not reveal their faces.  Though the Temple of the Sign was quickly destroyed as the seven kings came to their senses, there were those who still pledged loyalty to the crossed trident.  Small in numbers, these wicked few formed a loose network throughout the land, anonymously passing secrets and hoping for a return of their glorious king.  And unfortunately, among these ranks was a vile soul possessed with the intelligence, the cunning and the power to do something about it.

As the holy savior Corvus was to the forces of good, Malumax was to the forces of evil.  Once a learned man of the world, taught by the finest minds of Parthoris, Malumax was twisted significantly by the Order of the Sign.  Having heard of the defeat of D'Sparil at the hands of a lone Sidhe, Malumax vowed to right this wrong.  For he believed the Sidhe were wrong in their interpretation of their own mythology; D'Sparil and the Serpent Riders were literal Gods, incarnated into our realm to wipe out the Sidhe and usher in a new age of prosperity for Man.  So sure was he of this that he underwent an unholy transformation at his own hand, changing himself from a man into a horrid lich with a fire burning within, so as to ensure he would live long enough to enact his plans.

And at last, after countless years toiling in the darkness, scheming and preparing, the time came for Malumax to return.  At a historic meeting of the reigning kings of the seven nations and the chief of the Elders of Sidhe, he appeared in a torrent of flames.  He showed no remorse as he effortlessly assassinated the Sidhe representative in front of a horrified crowd.  As he turned to face them, he told them that the time of the Sidhe had passed.  No longer would they control us, no longer would their mystic power govern the actions of Men.  Most assuredly, this was only the beginning.  Before anyone had time to react from the shock, he vanished just as suddenly as he'd appeared.

Emboldened by his actions, the generations of men who sprang forth from the original members of the Order of the Sign took to the streets to show their support.  Their underground network spread his propaganda across the land, and soon in all corners of Parthoris, the evil in the hearts of men had been ignited.  But the Sidhe did not fear; these were simply the cries of extremists, men whose fires were started with fear and stoked by lies.  Their only concern was for the lich who had slain one of their Elders, but despite their best efforts, none could scry his location.

Then came the news that turned faces pale across the west: rumors that the New Order (as they'd come to be called) were planning to resurrect their God.  Servants of Malumax had learned the location of and retrieved a gem known as the Heart of D'Sparil from a secret location deep in the wilds of Parthoris, and reportedly the lich himself had somehow found and recovered his remains from the bottom of the sea.  Though the method was unclear, the endgame was clear.  This changed everything.

However, before the Sidhe had time to react, a second problem hit: armies of the dead began appearing in pockets throughout Parthoris, and more troubling still, they appeared to rapidly be approaching the west.  Whole fiefdoms that had pledged allegiance to the Sidhe fell as the darkness slowly choked the land.  There was no doubt about it: Malumax had mobilized, and his sights were set on them.  As their allies fell and many broke ties out of fear for their own safety, things looked grim.

As the remaining Elders of Sidhe gathered to formulate a plan, an elf named Garrulus came up with a much simpler one of his own.  Motivated only by anger and vengeance, and armed only with a simple Gold Wand, he set out for the east to find out where Malumax was hiding and to bring an end to his evil plans once and for all.  Now it's a race against time to find and stop him before he is able to bring about a second age of Heresy and wipe out the Sidhe once and for all.